# Heart-Disease-Prediction-Project
The Heart Disease Prediction project is one of the most popular Python healthcare projects. This project seeks to contribute to the detection of the occurrence and potential risk of heart attacks, coronary artery disease, and other cardiovascular disorders.
Using the UCI Heart Disease dataset, which has 14 columns and more than 300 samples, you can try out how well various prediction models work. Start by loading Python's essential libraries such as Pandas, Scikit-Learn, etc. Build the different machine learning models such as k neighbors classifier, SVM, Random Forest, and Decision Tree using Scikit Learn. Additionally, you will conduct exploratory data analysis (EDA) on the data using the Pandas library. You will observe that K-nearest neighbors perform the best on the UCI dataset after experimenting with five machine learning models to predict heart disease. 

## What is Heart Disease Prediction using Machine Learning?
Today, heart failure diseases affect more people worldwide than other autoimmune conditions. Cardiovascular Diseases (CVDs) affect the heart and obstruct blood flow through the blood vessels. Chronic ailments in CVD include heart disease (heart attack), cerebrovascular diseases (strokes), congestive heart failure, and many more pathologies. Worldwide, CVDs kill around 17 million a year, and death rates due to heart diseases have increased after the COVID-19 pandemic.

CVDs commonly occur when the heart fails to supply blood under normal conditions, leading to high blood pressure, diabetes, chest pain, or other cardiac disorders. Initially, hospitals use regular tools like ECGs to determine and evaluate the stage of the disease. Better technologies like MCGs help in detecting these diseases when they are in an early stage. However, such devices and technologies are not just expensive and unfit for smaller clinics for heart disease diagnosis but also time-consuming and sensitive to tangential causes. Thus, technicians and clinicians would greatly benefit if there was an autonomous system in place that could perform a test for heart disease detection and warn of CVD risk at an early stage. With AI entering every other industry with the advance of computer science, medical science perhaps has the vastest scope of need and use for artificial intelligence solutions -- especially in developing countries.
